Now that we've reviewed
how a SIEM works,
let's learn how to search and
query events in a SIEM database.
Data that's been imported
into a SIEM can be accessed
by entering queries into
the SIEM's search engine.
Massive amounts of data can
be stored in a SIEM database.
Some of this data
may date back years.
This can make searching for
security events challenging.
For example, let's say you're
searching to find a
failed login event.
You search for the event using
the keywords: failed login.
This is a very broad query, which
can return thousands of results.
Broad search queries like this,
slow down the response
times of a search engine
since it's searching
across all the indexed data.
But, if you specify
additional parameters,
like an event ID and a
date and time range,
you can narrow down the
search to get faster results.
It's important that
search queries
are specific, so
that you can find
exactly what you're
looking for and
save time in the search process.
Different SIEM tools use
different search methods.
For example, Splunk uses
its own query language called
Search Processing Language,
or SPL for short.
SPL has many different search
options you can use to
optimize search
results, so that you
can get the data
you're looking for.
For now, I'll demonstrate
a raw log search in Splunk
Cloud for events that
reference errors or failures for
a fictional online store
called Buttercup Games.
First, we'll use the search
bar to type in our query:
buttercupgames error
OR fail*
This search is
specifying the index,
which is buttercupgames.
We also specify the search
terms: error OR fail.
The Boolean operator OR ensures
that both of the keywords
will be searched.
The asterisk at the
end of the term
fail* is known
as a wildcard.
This means it will search for
all possible endings that
contain the term fail.
This helps us expand
our search results
because events may label
failures differently.
For example, some events
may use the term failed.
Next, we'll select a time range
using the time range picker.
Remember, the more specific
our search is, the better.
Let's search for data
from the last 30 days.
Under the search bar, we
have our search results.
There's a timeline,
which gives us
a visual representation of
the number of events
over a period.
This can be helpful
in identifying
event patterns such as
peaks in activity.
Under the timeline, there's
the events viewer, which
gives us a list of events
that match our search.
Notice how our search terms:
buttercupgames and error
are highlighted in each event.
It doesn't appear
that any events
matching with the
term fail were found.
Each event has a timestamp
and raw logged data.
For the events with errors,
it appears that there's
an error relating to
the HTTP cookies used in the
Buttercup Games website.
At the bottom of
the raw log data,
there's some information
related to the data source,
including the host name,
source, and source type.
This information tells
us where the event data
originated from such as
a device or file.
If we click on it,
we can choose to
exclude it from the
search results.
On the search bar,
we can examine
that the search terms
have been changed
and host!=www1
has been added,
which means not to
include www1 hosts.
Notice that the new
search results do not
contain www1 as a host,
but contain www2 and www3.
This is just one of the many
ways that you can target
your searches to retrieve
information you're looking for.
This search is known
as a raw log search,
which has a slower search
performance since it extracts
log data fields during
the search process.
As a security analyst,
you'll use different
commands to optimize
search performance for
faster search results.
That completes
querying in Splunk.
You've learned the importance
of effective queries
and how to perform a
basic Splunk search.
Coming up, you'll learn how
to query events in Chronicle.